.TH backintime-config 1 "Sep 2024" "version 1.5.3-dev.3e80feee" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
config \- Back In Time configuration file.
.SH SYNOPSIS
~/.config/backintime/config
.br
/etc/backintime/config
.SH DESCRIPTION
Back In Time was developed as pure GUI program and so most functions are only usable with \fBbackintime-qt\fR. But it is possible to use Back In Time e.g. on a headless server. You have to create the configuration file (~/.config/backintime/config) manually. Look inside /usr/share/doc/backintime\-common/examples/ for examples.
.PP
The configuration file has the following format:
.br
keyword=arguments
.PP
Arguments don't need to be quoted. All characters are allowed except '='.
.PP
Run 'backintime check-config' to verify the configfile, create the snapshot folder and crontab entries.
.SH POSSIBLE KEYWORDS
.IP "\fIglobal.hash_collision\fR" 6
.RS
Type: int       Allowed Values: 0-99999
.br
Internal value used to prevent hash collisions on mountpoints. Do not change this.
.PP
Default: 0
.RE

.IP "\fIglobal.language\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: ISO 639 language codes
.br
Language code (ISO 639) used to translate the user interface. If empty the operating systems current local is used. If 'en' the translation is not active and the original English source strings are used. It is the same if the value is unknown.
.PP
Default: 
.RE

.IP "\fIglobal.use_flock\fR" 6
.RS
Type: bool      Allowed Values: true|false
.br
Prevent multiple snapshots (from different profiles or users) to be run at the same time.
.PP
Default: false
.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.mode\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: local|local_encfs|ssh|ssh_encfs
.br
Use mode (or backend) for this snapshot. Look at 'man backintime' section 'Modes'.
.PP
Default: local
.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.path\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: absolute path
.br
Where to save snapshots in mode 'local'. This path must contain a folderstructure like 'backintime/<HOST>/<USER>/<PROFILE_ID>'.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.path.host\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: local hostname
.br
Set Host for snapshot path.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.path.user\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: local username
.br
Set User for snapshot path.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.path.profile\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: 1-99999
.br
Set Profile-ID for snapshot path
.PP
Default: current Profile-ID
.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.path\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: absolute or relative path
.br
Snapshot path on remote host. If the path is relative (no leading '/') it will start from remote Users homedir. An empty path will be replaced with './'.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.host\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: IP or domain address
.br
Remote host used for mode 'ssh' and 'ssh_encfs'.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.port\fR" 6
.RS
Type: int       Allowed Values: 0-65535
.br
SSH Port on remote host.
.PP
Default: 22
.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.user\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: text
.br
Remote SSH user.
.PP
Default: local users name
.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.cipher\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: default | aes192-cbc | aes256-cbc | aes128-ctr | aes192-ctr | aes256-ctr | arcfour | arcfour256 | arcfour128 | aes128-cbc | 3des-cbc | blowfish-cbc | cast128-cbc
.br
Cipher that is used for encrypting the SSH tunnel. Depending on the environment (network bandwidth, cpu and hdd performance) a different cipher might be faster.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.private_key_file\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: absolute path to private key file
.br
Private key file used for password-less authentication on remote host.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.proxy_host\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: IP or domain address
.br
Proxy host (or jump host) used to connect to remote host.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.proxy_port\fR" 6
.RS
Type: int       Allowed Values: 0-65535
.br
Port of SSH proxy (jump) host used to connect to remote host.
.PP
Default: 22
.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.proxy_user\fR" 6
.RS
Type: str       Allowed Values: text
.br
SSH user at proxy (jump) host.
.PP
Default: local users name
.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.max_arg_length\fR" 6
.RS
Type: int       Allowed Values: 0, >700
.br
Maximum command length of commands run on remote host. This can be tested for all ssh profiles in the configuration with 'python3 /usr/share/backintime/common/sshMaxArg.py LENGTH'. The value '0' means unlimited length.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.check_commands\fR" 6
.RS
Type: bool      Allowed Values: true|false
.br
Check if all commands (used during takeSnapshot) work like expected on the remote host.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.ssh.check_ping\fR" 6
.RS
Type: bool      Allowed Values: true|false
.br
Check if the remote host is available before trying to mount.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.local_encfs.path\fR" 6
.RS
Type: Path      Allowed Values: absolute path
.br
Where to save snapshots in mode 'local_encfs'.
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.password.save\fR" 6
.RS
Type: bool      Allowed Values: true|false
.br
Save password to system keyring (gnome-keyring or kwallet).
.PP

.RE

.IP "\fIprofile<N>.snapshots.password.use_cache\fR" 6
.RS
Type: None      Allowed Values: true|false
.br
Cache password in RAM so it can be read by cronjobs. Security issue: root might be able to read that password, too.
.PP
Default: see #1855
.RE

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR backintime (1),
.BR backintime-qt (1)
.PP
Back In Time also has a website: https://github.com/bit-team/backintime
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by the Back In Time Team (<bit-dev@python.org>).
